Wing Commander Bitmap Navigator (WCNAV) v4                           23-AUG-1999
by Maciek Korzeniowski <matrix3d@polbox.com>


What does WCNAV do?
-------------------
WCNAV was made as an all purpose graphics viewer for the Wing Commander series
of games.  Currently it is able to autodetect nearly all WC1 and WC2 graphics in
VGA and Vnn files (where nn is a two digit number).  This includes WC Academy,
Secret Missions 1/2 and Special Operations 1/2.  It also detects most Privateer
graphics in IFF, PAK and SHP files.  Armada SHP files have also been viewed
successfully with WCNAV.  Support for Armada IFF files is limited to cockpits.
Aside from auto-detection, WCNAV allows for manual browsing of files in search
or graphics.

Note: Some Privateer and Armada images, even though decoded correctly, use
      palettes not yet available in WCNAV.


Running WCNAV
-------------
WCNAV should be invoked from the DOS propmt (aka. command line).  It requires
DPMI and runs fine under Win9x.  It hasn't been tested under WinNT.  In theory
it can be run under DOS with the GO32-V2 extender, available with the DJGPP
distribution at <www.djdelorie.com>


Instructions
------------
Just run WCNAV for syntax and keys.


Specs
-----
WCNAV was compiled under DJGPP v2.01.
WCNAV.EXE should be 67072 bytes long.  
Algorithms used in WCNAV are explained in WC1G.TXT


Future Enhancements
-------------------
- Provide an interface allowing to switch directories and pick files to view.
  This would eliminate the need to enter a new filename each time.
- Allow browsing of TRE file structures for Privateer and Armada.
- Added support for Armada, WC3, WC4 and Prophecy/Secret Ops textures and
  possibly 3D meshes.
- Decode Armada VGA files.
- Encoding and writing of user images graphics to replace in game graphics.


Acknowledgements
----------------
I'd like to thank Chris Roberts for creating the Wing Commander universe.
Thanks also goes to Origin Systems for making the game a reality.
I'd also like to thank Mario "HCl" Brito.  Without his work in deciphering WC
ship formats, further work and WCNAV would not have been possible.


Copyright
---------
This program is Freeware.  It is dedicated to all Freeware authors.  Sources are
included and I retain no copyright to the program.  Feel free to do anything
with it.


Disclaimer
----------
Use of this program is completely at your own risk.  I have made every effort
to debug WCNAV and have tested it on my own machine.  However, I cannot be held
liable for any damage caused by the use and/or misuse of my program.  By
executing and using WCNAV.EXE you understand and agree to these terms.
